If you had simply expressed regret for what you had done , I should have been strongly inclined to dismiss the matter as an outbreak of temper .
If he had said of my mother what he said of the Mother of God , there is not a club of c    lean men in Europe that would deny my right to call him out .
If he had said it of my wife , you English would yourselves have pardoned me for beating him like a dog in the market place .
If you wanted to fight , why did you tell that ass you wanted to ?
If we all fell dead suddenly , the Church would still somehow exist in God .
If it is only you that like me , surely , also , it is only you that believe in the Catholic Church ."
If you called a woman a chimpanzee instead of an angel , wouldn't there be a quarrel about a word ?
If the natural does not exist the supernatural obviously can't ."
If I flew up to the ceiling ----"
If you had been an eighteenth - century sceptic you would have told me that I ignore the kindness and benevolence of nature .
If anyone else in the world had said the words , MacIan would have snorted with his equine neigh of scorn .
If the world has some healthy balance other than God , let the world find it .
If your state is not listed and you would like to know if we have added it since the list you have , just ask .
If you received this eBook on a physical medium ( such as a disk ), you must return it with your request .
If you received it on a physical medium , you must return it with your note , and such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement copy .
If you received it electronically , such person may choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to receive it electronically .
If I were you , whatever I did should be done at my own discretion entirely .
If their evenings at the park were concluded with cards , he cheated himself and all the rest of the party to get her a good hand .
If dancing formed the amusement of the night , they were partners for half the time ; and when obliged to separate for a couple of dances , were careful to stand together and scarcely spoke a word to any body else .
If her sisters intended to walk on the downs , she directly stole away towards the lanes ; if they talked of the valley , she was as speedy in climbing the hills , and could never be found when the others set off .
If I could persuade myself that my manners were perfectly easy and graceful , I should not be shy ."
If in the supposition of his seeking to marry herself , his difficulties from his mother had seemed great , how much greater were they now likely to be , when the object of his engagement was undoubtedly inferior in connections , and probably inferior in fortune to herself .
If you knew what it was to me to speak to you , your compassion would make you overlook every thing else I am sure ."
If the strength of your reciprocal attachment had failed , as between many people , and under many circumstances it naturally would during a four years' engagement , your situation would have been pitiable , indeed ."
If you could be supposed to be biased in any respect by your own feelings , your opinion would not be worth having ."
If you know it already , as surely you must , I may be spared ."
If she had only made me a formal courtesy , for instance , without saying a word , and never after had took any notice of me , and never looked at me in a pleasant way -- you know what I mean -- if I had been treated in that forbidding sort of way , I should have gave it all up in despair .
If you only hope to have your assertion contradicted , as I must suppose to be the case , you ought to recollect that I am the last person in the world to do it .
If you had only sent him to Westminster as well as myself , instead of sending him to Mr . Pratt's , all this would have been prevented .'
If she suspected ANY prepossession elsewhere , it could not be in THAT quarter .
If , however , by an unforeseen chance it should be in my power to serve him farther , I must think very differently of him from what I now do , if I am not as ready to be useful to him then as I sincerely wish I could be at present .
If , however , I am allowed to think that you and yours feel an interest in my fate and actions , it may be the means -- it may put me on my guard -- at least , it may be something to live for .
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus , the Riuals of my Watch , bid them make hast .
If there be any good thing to be done , That may to thee do ease , and grace to me ; speak to me .
If it liue in your memory , begin at this Line , let me see , let me see : The rugged Pyrrhus like th ' Hyrcanian Beast .
If thou doest Marry , Ile giue thee this Plague for thy Dowrie .
If she finde him not , To England send him : Or confine him where Your wisedome best shall thinke
If he steals ought the whilst this Play is Playing , And scape detecting , I will pay the Theft .
If Hamlet from himself be done away : And when he's not himself , do ' s wrong Laertes , Then Hamlet does it not , Hamlet denies it : Who does it then?
If thou did ' st euer hold me in thy heart , Absent thee from felicitie awhile , And in this harsh world draw thy breath in paine , To tell my Storie .
If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a civilized town , that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford .
If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan ' s breast , this pleasant , genial smoke we had , soon thawed it out , and left us cronies .
If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication .
If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society , it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits , were he presented to the company as a harpooneer , say ; and if in emulation of the naval officers he should append the initials S . W . F .
if I shall spread a rainbow over his disastrous set of sun 
If any of the following whales , shall hereafter be caught and marked , then he can readily be incorporated into this System , according to his Folio , Octavo , or Duodecimo magnitude :-- The Bottle - Nose Whale ; the Junk Whale ; the Pudding - Headed Whale ; the Cape Whale ; the Leading Whale ; the Cannon Whale ; the Scragg Whale ; the Coppered Whale ; the Elephant Whale ; the Iceberg Whale ; the Quog Whale ; the Blue Whale ; etc .
If old Rad were here now , I'd tell him to jump overboard and scatter ' em .
If moody Ahab was now all quiescence , at least so far as could be known on deck , Stubb , his second mate , flushed with conquest , betrayed an unusual but still good - natured excitement .
If you have never seen that sight , then suspend your decision about the propriety of devil - worship , and the expediency of conciliating the devil .
If hereafter any highly cultured , poetical nation shall lure back to their birth - right , the merry May - day gods of old ; 
If then , Sir William Jones , who read in thirty languages , could not read the simplest peasant's face in its profounder and more subtle meanings , how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale's brow ?
If the only whales that thus sank were old , meagre , and broken - hearted creatures , their pads of lard diminished and all their bones heavy and rheumatic ; then you might with some reason assert that this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so sinking , consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him .
If the wind only held , little doubt had they , that chased through these Straits of Sunda , the vast host would only deploy into the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their number .
If we bend down our eyes , the dark vale shows her mouldy soil ; but if we lift them , the bright sun meets our glance half way , to cheer .
If you stooped over too far forward , you risked their pitching out of you like billiard - balls .
If I had sky - sail poles , I'd sway them up now ."
If , then , he were this instant -- put aside , that crime would not be his .
If by day they chanced to speak one word ; by night , dumb men were both , so far as concerned the slightest verbal interchange .
If she can hesitate as to ` Yes ,' she ought to say ` No ' directly .
If he had never esteemed my opinion before , he would have thought highly of me then ; and , I dare say , left the house thinking me the best friend and counsellor man ever had .
If I had but her memory !
If he had been anxious for secrecy , he would not have left the paper while I was by ; 
If he were , everything else must give way ; 
If I draw less , I shall read more ; if I give up music , I shall take to carpet - work .
If we were obliged to go out such an evening as this , by any call of duty or business , what a hardship we should deem it ;-
If she has fancied otherwise , her own wishes have misled her , and I am very sorry -- extremely sorry -- But , Miss Smith , indeed !-- Oh !
If _she_ had so misinterpreted his feelings , she had little right to wonder that _he_ , with self - interest to blind him , should have mistaken hers .
If Frank Churchill had wanted to see his father , he would have contrived it between September and January .
If I find him conversable , I shall be glad of his acquaintance ; but if he is only a chattering coxcomb , he will not occupy much of my time or thoughts ."
If it was not for the drawback of her illness -- but I am afraid we must expect to see her grown thin , and looking very poorly .
If any thing could be more , where all was most , she was more reserved on the subject of Weymouth and the Dixons than any thing .
If ever there were people who , without having great wealth themselves , had every thing they could wish for , I am sure it is us .
If she were to meet Miss Bates in her way !-- and upon its beginning to rain , Emma was obliged to expect that the weather would be detaining her at Mrs . Goddard ' s , and that the intelligence would undoubtedly rush upon her without preparation .
If he had come at Christmas he could not have stayed three days ; I was always glad he did not come at Christmas ; now we are going to have just the right weather for him , fine , dry , settled weather .
If he were deficient there , nothing should make amends for it .
If the talking aunt had taken me quite by surprise , it must have been the death of me .
If it were to be shared with the woman he loved , he could not think any man to be pitied for having that house .
If he were , he would have done this differently .
If he were to be very alert in engaging Jane Fairfax now , it might augur something .
If Mr . and Mrs . Weston will be so obliging as to call here one morning , we may talk it over , and see what can be done ."
If I could be sure of the rooms being thoroughly aired -- but is Mrs . Stokes to be trusted ?
If one could ascertain what the chief of them -- the Coles , for instance .
If the Westons think it worth while to be at all this trouble for a few hours of noisy entertainment , I have nothing to say against it , but that they shall not choose pleasures for me .-- Oh !
If not wise or refined herself , she would have connected him with those who were ; but Miss Hawkins , it might be fairly supposed from her easy conceit , had been the best of her own set .
If Miss Woodhouse would not be displeased , she would rather stay at home ."
If I meet with no insuperable difficulties therefore , consider that point as settled ."
If Jane repressed her for a little time , she soon began again ; 
If a separation of two months should not have cooled him , there were dangers and evils before her :-- caution for him and for herself would be necessary .
If he were quite sincere , if he really tried to come , it was to be inferred that Mrs . Churchill's removal to London had been of no service to the wilful or nervous part of her disorder .
If meant to be immediately mixed with the others , and buried from sight , she should have looked on the table instead of looking just across.
If Mr . Knightley did not begin seriously , he was obliged to proceed so , for his proposal was caught at with delight ; and the " Oh !
If she could not have been angry with Frank Churchill too , it would have been dreadful 
If all took place that might take place among the circle of her friends , Hartfield must be comparatively deserted ; and she left to cheer her father with the spirits only of ruined happiness .
If I could but see her again !-- But I must not propose it yet .
If any thing could increase her delight , it was perceiving that the baby would soon have outgrown its first set of caps .
If Emma had still , at intervals , an anxious feeling for Harriet , a momentary doubt of its being possible for her to be really cured of her attachment to Mr . Knightley 
If it were not so , the most poetical thing in the world would be the Underground Railway ."
If I struck you dead I could not wipe it out .
If he defied the man he was probably dead , either struck stiff there in his chair or long afterwards as by an innocent ailment .
If he called in the police promptly , arrested everyone , told all , and set against them the whole energy of England , he would probably escape ; certainly not otherwise .
If we had come here first , we should have had the whole staff at the keyhole .
If the man had one character as a paralytic and another character as a pursuer , the antithesis might make him more interesting , but scarcely more soothing .
If we had only known that we were three !"
If heaven were his throne and the earth his footstool , I swear that I would pull him down ."
If I had been a draughtsman I would have drawn a caricature .
If I did that I shouldn't know the difference between right and wrong ."
If he misses that he misses his crime .
If we turned and fought these fellows , the whole town would fight for us ."
If you had got the man's character into your head --"
If they were all harmless officers , what was Sunday ?
If we could only get round in front --"
If Syme had been able to see himself , he would have realised that he , too , seemed to be for the first time himself and no one else .
If you were the man in the dark room , why were you also Sunday , an offense to the sunlight ?
If you were from the first our father and our friend , why were you also our greatest enemy ?
If Mrs Clay were a very beautiful woman , I grant you , it might be wrong to have her so much with me ; 
If Jemima were not the trustiest , steadiest creature in the world , it would be enough to spoil her ; for she tells me , they are always tempting her to take a walk with them ."
If I were to shut myself up for ever with the child , I should not be able to persuade him to do anything he did not like .
If he were a little spoilt by such universal , such eager admiration , who could wonder ?
If he should rise to any very great honours !
If he should ever be made a baronet !
If I loved a man , as she loves the Admiral , I would always be with him , nothing should ever separate us , and I would rather be overturned by him , than driven safely by anybody else ."
If Louisa recovered , it would all be well again .
If Elizabeth and her father did not deceive themselves , had been taking much pains to seek the acquaintance , and proclaim the value of the connection , as he had formerly taken pains to shew neglect .
If he really sought to reconcile himself like a dutiful branch , he must be forgiven for having dismembered himself from the paternal tree .
If he had but asked who the party were !
If Elizabeth could but have heard this !
If we were not related , it would not signify ; but as cousins , she would feel scrupulous as to any proposal of ours .
If she could only have a few minutes conversation with him again , she fancied she should be satisfied ; and as to the power of addressing him , she felt all over courage if the opportunity occurred .
If she would only wear rouge she would not be afraid of being seen ; but last time I called , I observed the blinds were let down immediately ."
If one happens only to shut the door a little hard , she starts and wriggles like a young dab 
If I had such a memory as Benwick , I could bring you fifty quotations in a moment on my side the argument , and I do not think I ever opened a book in my life which had not something to say upon woman's inconstancy .
If I was wrong in yielding to persuasion once , remember that it was to persuasion exerted on the side of safety , not of risk .
If it was of any interest to Miss Rome or could come in anywhere in the play , he hoped she would --
If it be true that in the twentieth century more space is given to murder than to politics , it is for the excellent reason that murder is a more serious subject .
If the convict was not keeping the shot for Todd , as he evidently wasn't , it is most likely that he was keeping it for Lord Falconroy ; and it looks as if he had delivered the goods .
If you could tell by his manner when the word that might hang him had come , why shouldn't he tell from your manner that the word that might hang him was coming ?
If the thing was crawling close all around the house like a cat , it might have purposes worse even than blackmail .
If he had hesitated an instant at the water's edge it would have been nothing .
If I gave you the faintest hint of the load of horror I have to bear alone , you would lie shrieking at these feet of mine and begging to know no more .
If he says something is too terrible to hear , hear it .
If Queen Elizabeth were to rise from the grave and come up this river in a gilded barge , she would be received by the Admiral in a house exactly such as she was accustomed to , in every corner and casement , in every panel on the wall or plate on the table .
If all the Pendragons sailed about anyhow , he thought there would be too much chance of natural catastrophes to prove anything .
If it was dreary in a hundred bleak offices and yawning drawing - rooms , it was drearier still along the edges of the flat Essex coast , where the monotony was the more inhuman for being broken at very long intervals by a lamp - post that looked less civilized than a tree , or a tree that looked more ugly than a lamp - post .
If I send out word that it's off we shall have Malvoli storming in here at the head of a whole Corsican clan ."
If you were chased everywhere by devils and nearly --"
If you had seen the Monkey's Face , still we should be very moderate , very tolerant -- you would only be tortured and live .
If Boulnois killed anyone he'd do it quietly and heavily , as he'd do any other doubtful thing -- take a tenth glass of port , or read a loose Greek poet .
If you said to him in so many words , ` Champion is stealing your wife ,' he would think the joke a little vulgar : that it could be anything but a joke -- that notion could find no crack in his great skull to get in by .
If she just pulled their heads off , as a child does , it looks as if --" And he hesitated .
If I or she should chance to be Involved in this affair , He trusts to you to set them free , Exactly as we were .
If Chance will haue me King , Why Chance may Crowne me , Without my stirre
If we should faile ?
If you shall cleaue to my consent , When ' tis , it shall make Honor for you
If he had beene forgotten , It had been as a gap in our great Feast , And all - thing vnbecomming
If much you note him You shall offend him , and extend his Passion , Feed , and regard him not .
If I stand heere , I saw him
If you would understand me go to the heights or water - shore , The nearest gnat is an explanation , and a drop or motion of waves key , The maul , the oar , the hand - saw , second my words .
If they had not reference to you in especial what were they then ?)
If we are lost , no victor else has destroy'd us , It is by ourselves we go down to eternal night .
If I should need to name , O Western World , your powerfulest scene and show , ' Twould not be you , Niagara -- nor you , ye limitless prairies -- nor your huge rifts of canyons , Colorado , Nor you , Yosemite -- nor Yellowstone , with all its spasmic geyser - loops ascending to the skies , appearing and disappearing , Nor Oregon's white cones -- nor Huron's belt of mighty lakes -- nor Mississippi's stream : -- This seething hemisphere's humanity , as now , I'd name -- the still small voice vibrating -- America's choosing day , ( The heart of it not in the chosen -- the act itself the main , the quadriennial choosing ,) The stretch of North and South arous ' d -- sea - board and inland -- Texas to Maine -- the Prairie States -- Vermont , Virginia , California , The final ballot - shower from East to West -- the paradox and conflict , The countless snow - flakes falling --( a swordless conflict , Yet more than all Rome's wars of old , or modern Napoleon's :) the peaceful choice of all , Or good or ill humanity -- welcoming the darker odds , the dross : -- Foams and ferments the wine ?
If the man had run for it , he could still have reached the castle , but , instead , he sat still and shouted for a horse .
If he said , Nay ; 12 : 6 Then said they unto him , Say now Shibboleth : and he said Sibboleth : for he could not frame to pronounce it right .
If I expressly say unto the lad , Behold , the arrows are on this side of thee , take them ; then come thou : for there is peace to thee , and no hurt ; as the LORD liveth .
If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub , how much more shall they call them of his household ?
If thou be the Son of God , come down from the cross .    
If he be the King of Israel , let him now come down from the cross , and we will believe him .
If thou do these things , shew thyself to the world .
If thou be the Christ , tell us plainly .
If I worked , and worked , and worked ever so hard , I could no ways earn two guineas AFORE Monday fortnight -- could I , mother ?"
If you remember , you said you should have no objections to try the boy ; and upon that cook bought him new shirts ; but they are too the good , as I tell her ."
If my boy Philip was at home , maybe , as he's often at Mrs . Price's ( which I don't disapprove ), he might know the history of the guinea - hen .
If the allusion's good , we shall probably find out your meaning .
If I was going to be hanged , for the life of me I couldn't be after begging so many pardons for nothing at all .
If Lady Piercefield will trust you to my care , then i would be much happier
If he can't wait , let him go about his business .
If you desire me to be your manager , you shall see what a theatre I will make for you .
If they do not feel angry themselves , they do not sympathize with you .
If it were but tomorrow , or yesterday , or any day but this , I would not hesitate 
If anybody else had told me so , I could not have believed them , because I remember the box so well ; but I can't help believing Leonora .
If you would take me along with you amongst them ,it would quite set me up again ; for they all like you .
If you hope for MY pardon , I can tell you it's not to be had without asking for .
If the tag - ragge people did not clap him , and hisse him , according as he pleas'd , and displeas'd them , as they vse to doe the Players in the Theatre , I am no true man
If I were Brutus now , and he were Cassius , He should not humor me .
If this were true , then should I know this secret .
If you shall send them word you will not come , Their minds may change.
If any , speak , for him, haue I offended.
If any , cry , for him haue I offended.
If any , kill , for him haue I offended.
If you did , I care not
If at Philippi we do face him there, These people got our backs
If Cassius might have rul'd
If you dare fight today , come to the Field 
If we do lose this Battle , then is this The very last time we shall speak together : What are you then determined to do ?
If I must contend , said he , Best with the best , the sender , not the sent , Or all at once ; more glory will be won , Or less be lost .
If from this hour Within these hallowed limits thou appear , Back to the infernal pit I drag thee chained , And seal thee so , as henceforth not to scorn The facile gates of Hell too slightly barred .
If prayers Could alter high decrees , I to that place Would speed before thee , and be louder heard , That on my head all might be visited ; Thy frailty and infirmer sex forgiven , To me committed , and by me exposed .
If patiently thy bidding they obey , Dismiss them not disconsolate ; reveal To Adam what shall come in future days , As I shall thee enlighten ; intermix My covenant in the Woman's seed renewed ; So send them forth , though sorrowing , yet in peace : And on the east side of the garden place , Where entrance up from Eden easiest climbs , Cherubick watch ; and of a sword the flame Wide - waving ; all approach far off to fright , And guard all passage to the tree of life : Lest Paradise a receptacle prove To Spirits foul , and all my trees their prey ; With whose stolen fruit Man once more to delude .
If he had had his terrible gun with him , it might have been different.
If Brer Bear isn't scared , he must have remembered something important and has gone to attend to it in a powerful hurry.
If only he had kept his tongue still instead of saying hateful things to Buster Bear !
If only he had known that Buster could climb a tree !
If only he had chosen a tree near enough for him to jump across !
If only he had wings like Sammy Jay !