If I hate you it is because you have hated goodness .
If every man is an enlightened citizen , there is your enlightened citizen .
If a man is not a man , what is he ?
If you think your creed essential to morals why do you not make it a test for these things ?"
If you dislike him it is not because you are a nice ordinary man , but because you are ( if you will excuse me ) a sophisticated prig of a Fleet Street editor .
If these are annals of military glory , it is due to him to say that he need not have abandoned the conflict ; only that as he backed to the edge of the ditch his foot caught in a loop of grass and he went over in a flat and comfortable position from which it took him a considerable time to rise .
If you are horribly sorry it is all the better .
If he exists he must be a new era in human psychology .
If there is half an hour of inquiry , we are cooked ."
If any villagers or sailors were looking towards it they must have seen a strange sight as MacIan cried out for the third time .
If the value per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $ 2 million dollars per hour in 2002 as we release over 100 new text files per month : 1240 more eBooks in 2001 for a total of 4000 + We are already on our way to trying for 2000 more eBooks in 2002 If they reach just 1 - 2 % of the world's population then the total will reach over half a trillion eBooks given away by year's end .
If you can't reach Project Gutenberg , you can always email directly to :
If you do not , you can receive a refund of the money ( if any ) you paid for this eBook by sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person you got it from .
If you discover a Defect in this eBook within 90 days of receiving it , you can receive a refund of the money ( if any ) you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that time to the person you received it from .
If you don't derive profits , no royalty is due .
If you are interested in contributing scanning equipment or software or other items , please contact Michael Hart at : hart @ pobox . com
If their praise is censure , your censure may be praise , for they are not more undiscerning , than you are prejudiced and unjust ."
If it will be any satisfaction to you , however , to be told , that I believe his character to be in other respects irreproachable , I am ready to confess it .
If we find they correspond , every fear of mine will be removed ."
If he had but my picture , he says he should be easy .
If the violence of her passions , the weakness of her understanding -- I do not mean , however , to defend myself .
If you CAN pity me , Miss Dashwood , pity my situation as it was THEN .
If you call me Iephta my Lord , I haue a daughter that I loue passing well
If ' t be so , Hamlet is of the Faction that is wrong ' d , His madness is pure Hamlets Enemy .
If they but knew it , almost all men in their degree , some time or other , cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me .
If you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable , and have been so a long time , then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more .
If American and European men - of - war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors , let them fire salutes to the honour and glory of the whale - ship , which originally showed them the way , and first interpreted between them and the savages .
If that double - bolted land , Japan , is ever to become hospitable , it is the whale - ship alone to whom the credit will be due ; for already she is on the threshold .
If ye see a white one , split your lungs for him !
If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding these vivacious fish , then heaven help ye ; the spirit of godly gamesomeness is not in ye .
If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck .
If money is to be the measurer , man , and the accountants have computed their great counting 
If man will strike , strike through the mask !
If such a furious trope may stand , his special lunacy stormed his general sanity , and carried it 
If , then , you properly put these statements together , and reason upon them a bit , you will clearly perceive that , according to all human reasoning , Procopius's sea - monster , that for half a century stove the ships of a Roman Emperor , must in all probability have been a sperm whale .
If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State , or the equally desolate Salisbury Plain in England ; 
If I do not , may lightning strike me !'
If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents , to Queequeg it was quite a different object .
If your banker breaks , you snap ; if your apothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills , you die .
If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you , with dagger uplifted in broad day , you would not be able to see him , any more than if he were stealing upon you from behind .
If he can , then is it as marvellous a thing in him , as if a man were able simultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinct problems in Euclid .
If you are an entire stranger to their race , you might hunt over these two heads for hours , and never discover that organ .
If you pry it up , so as to get it overhead , and expose its rows of teeth , it seems a terrific portcullis ; and such , alas !
If you stand on its summit and look at these two F - shaped spoutholes , you would take the whole head for an enormous bass - viol , and these spiracles , the apertures in its sounding - board .
If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .
If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx , to the phrenologist his brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible to square .
If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view of its rear end , which is the high end , you will be struck by its resemblance to the human skull , beheld in the same situation , and from the same point of view .
If I claim the demigod then , why not the prophet ?
If I say , that in any creature breathing is only a function indispensable to vitality , inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a certain element , which being subsequently brought into contact with the blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle , I do not think I shall err ; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words .
If he cuts off one of his own toes , or one of his assistants', would you be very much astonished ?
If you prefer Mr . Martin to every other person ; if you think him the most agreeable man you have ever been in company with , why should you hesitate ?
If she has it now , you have given it .
If they are anxious to see you happily married , here is a man whose amiable character gives every assurance of it ;-- if they wish to have you settled in the same country and circle which they have chosen to place you in , here it will be accomplished ; 
If we feel for the wretched , enough to do all we can for them , the rest is empty sympathy , only distressing to ourselves ."
If they are not put off , he cannot stir .
If you think he will come , I shall think so too ; for you know Enscombe ."
If Mr . Elton , on his return , made his own indifference as evident and indubitable as she could not doubt he would anxiously do , she could not imagine Harriet's persisting to place her happiness in the sight or the recollection of him .
If it were love , it might be simple , single , successless love on her side alone .
If any thing , you are too attentive .
If it be not inconvenient to you , pray let us go in , that I may prove myself to belong to the place , to be a true citizen of Highbury .
If Colonel Campbell is not the person , who can be ?"
If this is living in the country , it is nothing very formidable .
If one thinks of all that it has to do , and all that it does so well , it is really astonishing !"
If you want any further explanation ," continued he , smiling , " they are paid for it .
If she is ill I should be sorry to do her injustice ; but there are some traits in her character which make it difficult for me to speak of her with the forbearance I could wish .
If you wish me to talk to Mrs . Hodges , or to inspect anything --"
If you need farther explanation , I have the honour , my dear madam , of being your husband's son 
If you remember any queernesses , set them all to the right account .
If no comrade suggests a name , I can only tell myself that that dear dynamiter , who is gone from us , has carried into the unknowable abysses the last secret of his virtue and his innocence ."
If you will not take my command , accept my degradation .
If out of that stiff tie and collar there had come abruptly the head of a cat or a dog , it could not have been a more idiotic contrast .
If any such creature be conceivable , he looked , indeed , somewhat like it , with his earth - shaking abstraction , as of a stone statue walking .
If the people of the barrel - organ could keep their old - world obligations , so could he .
If you knew Renard as I do -- it's like calling Queen Victoria a dynamiter .
If you want to know what you are , you are a set of highly well - intentioned young jackasses ."
If anyone in heaven has that face I shall know him again .
If he has been tipped out of the car , we shall find him rolling as a colt rolls in a field , kicking his legs for fun ."
If there is anything disagreeable going on men are always sure to get out of it , and Charles is as bad as any of them .
If I am a fool , I shall be a fool indeed , for I have thought on the subject more than most men ."
If a man had not a wife , he soon wants to be afloat again ."
If you value her conduct or happiness , infuse as much of your own spirit into her as you can .
If we were all like you , I believe we might sit four .
If the girl likes another man better , it is very fit she should have him ."
If in that light there is anything which you suppose his cousin might fairly ask of him , I beg you would not hesitate to employ me ."
If there is anything in my story which you know to be either false or improbable , stop me .
If you will have such ideas !
If the change be not from outward circumstances , it must be from within ; it must be nature , man's nature , which has done the business for Captain Benwick ."
If I could explain to you all this , and all that a man can bear and do , and glories to do , for the sake of these treasures of his existence !
If there is no Mr Glass , whose hat is this ?"
If you love me , go over to the cafe and wait at one of the tables outside .
If he's a French patriot he didn ' t write it , because it gives information to Germany .
If it's white instead of black , and solid instead of liquid , and so on all along the line -- then there's something wrong , Monsieur , there's something wrong .
If I tell you he had bronzed curly hair and a falconish sort of face , bronzed by the sea also , it's not for his sake , I assure you , but for the story ; for it was the cause of a very curious coincidence .
If the devil tells you something is too fearful to look at , look at it .
If you think some truth unbearable , bear it .
If one appropriate thing happens , it wakes us up like the pang of a perfect chord .
If thought is life And strength and breath And the want Of thought is death ;
If there come truth from them , As vpon thee Macbeth , their Speeches shine , Why by the verities on thee made good , May they not be my Oracles as well , And set me vp in hope .
If Charnell houses , and our Graues must send Those that we bury , backe ; our Monuments Shall be the Mawes of Kytes
If you will take a homely mans aduice , Be not found heere : Hence with your little ones To fright you thus .
If such a one be fit to gouerne , speake : I am as I haue spoken
If it be mine Keepe it not from me , quickly let me haue it
If thou could ' st Doctor , cast The Water of my Land , finde her Disease , And purge it to a sound and pristine Health , I would applaud thee to the very Eccho , That should applaud againe .
If thou speak ' st false , Vpon the next Tree shall thou hang aliue Till Famine cling thee : If thy speech be sooth , I care not if thou dost for me as much .
If I worship one thing more than another it shall be the spread of my own body , or any part of it , Translucent mould of me it shall be you !
If our colors are struck and the fighting done ?
If you tire , give me both burdens , and rest the chuff of your hand on my hip , And in due time you shall repay the same service to me , For after we start we never lie by again .
If any thing is sacred the human body is sacred , And the glory and sweet of a man is the token of manhood untainted , And in man or woman a clean , strong , firm - fibred body , is more beautiful than the most beautiful face .
If you stand at work in a shop I stand as nigh as the nighest in the same shop , If you bestow gifts on your brother or dearest friend I demand as good as your brother or dearest friend , If your lover , husband , wife , is welcome by day or night , I must be personally as welcome , If you become degraded , criminal , ill , then I become so for your sake , If you remember your foolish and outlaw'd deeds , do you think I cannot remember my own foolish and outlaw'd deeds ?
If you carouse at the table I carouse at the opposite side of the table , If you meet some stranger in the streets and love him or her , why I often meet strangers in the street and love them .
If the future is nothing they are just as surely nothing .
If all came but to ashes of dung , If maggots and rats ended us , then Alarum !
If you will be so very obliging as to help me ----"
If you really want my opinion you must make the matter clear .
If you will have a little patience ,-- _how_ were you in the cage ?
If you do that , you'll drown me !
If you open your mouth , you are lost ."
If you do not heed its warnings a worse thing will happen to you , for I shall become your enemy ."
If the LORD have stirred thee up against me , let him accept an offering : but if they be the children of men , cursed be they before the LORD ; for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the LORD , saying , Go , serve other gods .
If it be , give me thine hand .
If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke , the putting forth of the finger , and speaking vanity ; 58 : 10 And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry , and satisfy the afflicted soul ; then shall thy light rise in obscurity , and thy darkness be as the noon day : 58 : 11 And the LORD shall guide thee continually , and satisfy thy soul in drought , and make fat thy bones : and thou shalt be like a watered garden , and like a spring of water , whose waters fail not .
If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness , how great is that darkness !
If any man walk in the day , he stumbleth not , because he seeth the light of this world.
If God be for us , who can be against us ?
If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world , let him become a fool , that he may be wise .
If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh , I more : 3 : 5 Circumcised the eighth day , of the stock of Israel , of the tribe of Benjamin , an Hebrew of the Hebrews ; as touching the law , a Pharisee ; 3 : 6 Concerning zeal,persecuting the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law , blameless .
If any man offend not in word , the same is a perfect man , and able also to bridle the whole body .
If any man love the world , the love of the Father is not in him.
If we love one another , God dwelleth in us.
If you want money , go work for it ; I've had enough of your laziness -- go work !"
If it's fat -- the sooner the better .
If other pigeons have done so before him , I think he is as good , and , I daresay , will be as easy to teach as any pigeon in the world .
If it is an impossibility , I've no more to say ; only , for the soul of me , I can't see the great unpossibility , wife .
If I may be so bold to put in my word , madam , you'd have as good beds , and be as well lodged , with Farmer Hearty , as in e'er a house at Salt Hill .
If Bursal takes it into his head not to lend me the money to pay for my captain's dress , what will become of me ?
If I'm not mistaken , here comes Talbot to answer for himself .
If I choose to call my hat my cadwallader , you would understand me just as well , after I had once explained it to you , that by cadwallader I meant this black thing that I put upon my head ; cadwallader and hat would then be just the same thing to you ."
If there is , let him walk off at once , he has my free leave ."
If these be not good reasons , none better can be assigned for Archer's conduct .
If I could get them to trust me as they do you , I should be happy indeed ."
If things go on at this rate , there will soon be not one drop of water left in my well ."
If there is any one of you afraid to be flogged , let him march off this instant !"
If you think there's any harm ?"
If I know this , then know all the World 
If it be no more , Portia is Brutus Harlot , not his Wife
If Brutus will vouchsafe , that Antony May safely come to him , and be resolu'd How Caesar hath deseru'd to lye in death , Mark Antony , shall not loue Caesar dead So well as Brutus liuing ; but will follow The Fortunes and Affayres of Noble Brutus , Thorough the hazards of this vntrod State , With all true Faith .
If there bee any in this Assembly , any deere Friend of Caesars , to him I say , that Brutus loue to Caesar , was no lesse then his .
If then , that Friend demand , why Brutus rose against Caesar , this is my answer : Not that I lou'd Caesar lesse , but that I lou'd Rome more.
If you have tears , prepare to shed them now .
If then his providence Out of our evil seek to bring forth good , Our labour must be to pervert that end , And out of good still to find means of evil 
If once they hear that voice , their liveliest pledge Of hope in fears and dangers -- heard so oft In worst extremes
If that way be your walk , you have not far ; So much the nearer danger.
If this be our condition , thus to dwell In narrow circuit straitened by a foe , Subtle or violent , we not endued Single with like defence , wherever met ; How are we happy , still in fear of harm ?
If care of our descent perplex us most , Which must be born to certain woe , devoured By Death at last ; and miserable it is To be to others cause of misery , Our own begotten , and of our loins to bring Into this cursed world a woeful race , That after wretched life must be at last Food for so foul a monster ; in thy power It lies , yet ere conception to prevent The race unblest , to being yet unbegot .
If I live long enough I'm going to get even with him !"
If you meet me at the Big Hickory - tree at sun - up to - morrow morning,and get everybody else to come that you can , perhaps I will tell you.