If he were foolhardy he might escape ; if he were wise he would stop where he was till he dropped from the cross like a stone .
If you had simply expressed regret for what you had done , I should have been strongly inclined to dismiss the matter as an outbreak of temper .
If he had said of my mother what he said of the Mother of God , there is not a club of c    lean men in Europe that would deny my right to call him out .
If he had said it of my wife , you English would yourselves have pardoned me for beating him like a dog in the market place .
If a man must not fight for this , may he fight for anything ?
If you wanted to fight , why did you tell that ass you wanted to ?
If I did not suspect that you were a genius , I should certainly know you were a blockhead .
If we all fell dead suddenly , the Church would still somehow exist in God .
If it is only you that like me , surely , also , it is only you that believe in the Catholic Church ."
If I hate you it is because you have hated goodness .
If you called a woman a chimpanzee instead of an angel , wouldn't there be a quarrel about a word ?
If you ' re not going to argue about words , what are you going to argue about ?
If that man had not tried to stop us ... I might ... I might have stopped ."
If you like , we are attempting a mutual martyrdom .
If winning is everything , go in and win !
If the weak must go to the wall , go to the wall !
If the natural does not exist the supernatural obviously can't ."
If I flew up to the ceiling ----"
If every man is an enlightened citizen , there is your enlightened citizen .
If a man is not a man , what is he ?
If you had been an eighteenth - century sceptic you would have told me that I ignore the kindness and benevolence of nature .
If you think your creed essential to morals why do you not make it a test for these things ?"
If you dislike him it is not because you are a nice ordinary man , but because you are ( if you will excuse me ) a sophisticated prig of a Fleet Street editor .
If these are annals of military glory , it is due to him to say that he need not have abandoned the conflict ; only that as he backed to the edge of the ditch his foot caught in a loop of grass and he went over in a flat and comfortable position from which it took him a considerable time to rise .
If you will tell us where you are going , we will see you safely there and say good night ."
If anyone else in the world had said the words , MacIan would have snorted with his equine neigh of scorn .
If someone had spoken of " her generous ribbon " or " her chivalrous gloves " or " her merciful shoe - buckle ," it would not have seemed to him nonsense .
If ever thou gavest hosen and shoon Every night and all , Sit thee down and put them on , And Christ receive thy soul .
If you had asked him about women , he would have said that one must preserve their domesticity and decorum ; he would have used the stalest words , but he would have in reserve the strongest arguments .
If you had asked him about government , he would have said that all citizens were free and equal , but he would have meant what he said .
If you had asked him about education , he would have said that the young must be trained up in habits of industry and of respect for their parents .
If you are horribly sorry it is all the better .
If it is essential to your emotions , I will cheerfully finish the fight here and now ; but I must confess that if you kill me here I shall die with my curiosity highly excited and unsatisfied upon a minor point of geography ."
If we can get some sleep in this wood , now everyone has cleared out of it , it will be worth a handicap of two hundred yards tomorrow ."
If he exists he must be a new era in human psychology .
If there is half an hour of inquiry , we are cooked ."
If the world has some healthy balance other than God , let the world find it .
If the citizen finds himself despoiled of such pleasures and powers as he would have had even in the savage state , the social contract is annulled ."
If any villagers or sailors were looking towards it they must have seen a strange sight as MacIan cried out for the third time .
If the value per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $ 2 million dollars per hour in 2002 as we release over 100 new text files per month : 1240 more eBooks in 2001 for a total of 4000 + We are already on our way to trying for 2000 more eBooks in 2002 If they reach just 1 - 2 % of the world's population then the total will reach over half a trillion eBooks given away by year's end .
If your state is not listed and you would like to know if we have added it since the list you have , just ask .
If you can't reach Project Gutenberg , you can always email directly to :
If you do not , you can receive a refund of the money ( if any ) you paid for this eBook by sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person you got it from .
If you received this eBook on a physical medium ( such as a disk ), you must return it with your request .
If you discover a Defect in this eBook within 90 days of receiving it , you can receive a refund of the money ( if any ) you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that time to the person you received it from .
If you received it on a physical medium , you must return it with your note , and such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement copy .
If you received it electronically , such person may choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to receive it electronically .
If you don't derive profits , no royalty is due .
If you are interested in contributing scanning equipment or software or other items , please contact Michael Hart at : hart @ pobox . com
If , indeed , it could be restored to our poor little boy --"
If he should have a numerous family , for instance , it would be a very convenient addition ."
If they marry , they will be sure of doing well , and if they do not , they may all live very comfortably together on the interest of ten thousand pounds ."
If I were you , whatever I did should be done at my own discretion entirely .
If their praise is censure , your censure may be praise , for they are not more undiscerning , than you are prejudiced and unjust ."
If it will be any satisfaction to you , however , to be told , that I believe his character to be in other respects irreproachable , I am ready to confess it .
If their evenings at the park were concluded with cards , he cheated himself and all the rest of the party to get her a good hand .
If dancing formed the amusement of the night , they were partners for half the time ; and when obliged to separate for a couple of dances , were careful to stand together and scarcely spoke a word to any body else .
If we find they correspond , every fear of mine will be removed ."
If you were to see them at the altar , you would suppose they were going to be married .
If her sisters intended to walk on the downs , she directly stole away towards the lanes ; if they talked of the valley , she was as speedy in climbing the hills , and could never be found when the others set off .
If I could persuade myself that my manners were perfectly easy and graceful , I should not be shy ."
If he had but my picture , he says he should be easy .
If in the supposition of his seeking to marry herself , his difficulties from his mother had seemed great , how much greater were they now likely to be , when the object of his engagement was undoubtedly inferior in connections , and probably inferior in fortune to herself .
If you knew what it was to me to speak to you , your compassion would make you overlook every thing else I am sure ."
If the strength of your reciprocal attachment had failed , as between many people , and under many circumstances it naturally would during a four years' engagement , your situation would have been pitiable , indeed ."
If you could be supposed to be biased in any respect by your own feelings , your opinion would not be worth having ."
If your sentiments are no longer what they were , you will return my notes , and the lock of my hair which is in your possession .
If I had my senses about me I might have called in Conduit Street on my way home , and told them of it .
If we CAN but put Willoughby out of her head !"
If you know it already , as surely you must , I may be spared ."
If she had only made me a formal courtesy , for instance , without saying a word , and never after had took any notice of me , and never looked at me in a pleasant way -- you know what I mean -- if I had been treated in that forbidding sort of way , I should have gave it all up in despair .
If you only hope to have your assertion contradicted , as I must suppose to be the case , you ought to recollect that I am the last person in the world to do it .
If you had only sent him to Westminster as well as myself , instead of sending him to Mr . Pratt's , all this would have been prevented .'
If she suspected ANY prepossession elsewhere , it could not be in THAT quarter .
If , however , by an unforeseen chance it should be in my power to serve him farther , I must think very differently of him from what I now do , if I am not as ready to be useful to him then as I sincerely wish I could be at present .
If the violence of her passions , the weakness of her understanding -- I do not mean , however , to defend myself .
If you CAN pity me , Miss Dashwood , pity my situation as it was THEN .
If , however , I am allowed to think that you and yours feel an interest in my fate and actions , it may be the means -- it may put me on my guard -- at least , it may be something to live for .
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus , the Riuals of my Watch , bid them make hast .
If there be any good thing to be done , That may to thee do ease , and grace to me ; speak to me .
If thou art privy to thy Countries Fate ( Which happily foreknowing may auoyd ) Oh speake .
If it be ; Why seems it so particular with thee
If he assumes my father to be a noble person, I'll speak.
If it be so ; And that in way of caution : I must tell you , You don't understand yourself so clearly
If it will please you to spend your time with us for a while. Your Visitation shall receive such thanks as fits a  King's remembrance
If you call me Iephta my Lord , I haue a daughter that I loue passing well
If it liue in your memory , begin at this Line , let me see , let me see : The rugged Pyrrhus like th ' Hyrcanian Beast .
If thou doest Marry , Ile giue thee this Plague for thy Dowrie .
If she finde him not , To England send him : Or confine him where Your wisedome best shall thinke
If he steals ought the whilst this Play is Playing , And scape detecting , I will pay the Theft .
If she should break it now
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer , I will doe your Mothers command ' ment : if not , your pardon , and my return shall be the end of my Business
If your Messenger find him not there , seeke him i ' th other place your selfe : but indeed , if you finde him not this month , you shall nose him as you go up the stairs into the Lobby
If it be so Laertes , as how should it be so : How otherwise will you be rul ' d by me ?
If so you 'll not o ' rerule me to a peace
If your minde dislike any thing , obey .
If it be now , ' tis not to come : if it bee not to come , it will bee now : if it be not now ; yet it will come ; the readiness is all , since no man has out of what he leaves .
If Hamlet from himself be done away : And when he's not himself , do ' s wrong Laertes , Then Hamlet does it not , Hamlet denies it : Who does it then?
If ' t be so , Hamlet is of the Faction that is wrong ' d , His madness is pure Hamlets Enemy .
If thou did ' st euer hold me in thy heart , Absent thee from felicitie awhile , And in this harsh world draw thy breath in paine , To tell my Storie .
If they but knew it , almost all men in their degree , some time or other , cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me .
If he had not been a small degree civilized , he very probably would not have troubled himself with boots at all ; but then , if he had not been still a savage , he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on .
If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a civilized town , that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford .
If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan ' s breast , this pleasant , genial smoke we had , soon thawed it out , and left us cronies .
If you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable , and have been so a long time , then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more .
If I had been downright honest with myself , I would have seen very plainly in my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to so long a voyage , without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the absolute dictator of it , so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea .
If ye touch at the islands , Mr . Flask , beware of fornication .
If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society , it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits , were he presented to the company as a harpooneer , say ; and if in emulation of the naval officers he should append the initials S . W . F .
If American and European men - of - war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors , let them fire salutes to the honour and glory of the whale - ship , which originally showed them the way , and first interpreted between them and the savages .
If that double - bolted land , Japan , is ever to become hospitable , it is the whale - ship alone to whom the credit will be due ; for already she is on the threshold .
if I shall spread a rainbow over his disastrous set of sun 
If ye see a white one , split your lungs for him !
If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding these vivacious fish , then heaven help ye ; the spirit of godly gamesomeness is not in ye .
If any of the following whales , shall hereafter be caught and marked , then he can readily be incorporated into this System , according to his Folio , Octavo , or Duodecimo magnitude :-- The Bottle - Nose Whale ; the Junk Whale ; the Pudding - Headed Whale ; the Cape Whale ; the Leading Whale ; the Cannon Whale ; the Scragg Whale ; the Coppered Whale ; the Elephant Whale ; the Iceberg Whale ; the Quog Whale ; the Blue Whale ; etc .
If Stubb even , who is but a peg higher than Flask , happens to have but a small appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then Flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck .
If money is to be the measurer , man , and the accountants have computed their great counting 
If man will strike , strike through the mask !
If such a furious trope may stand , his special lunacy stormed his general sanity , and carried it 
If , then , you properly put these statements together , and reason upon them a bit , you will clearly perceive that , according to all human reasoning , Procopius's sea - monster , that for half a century stove the ships of a Roman Emperor , must in all probability have been a sperm whale .
If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State , or the equally desolate Salisbury Plain in England ; 
If old Rad were here now , I'd tell him to jump overboard and scatter ' em .
If I do not , may lightning strike me !'
If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents , to Queequeg it was quite a different object .
If moody Ahab was now all quiescence , at least so far as could be known on deck , Stubb , his second mate , flushed with conquest , betrayed an unusual but still good - natured excitement .
If you have never seen that sight , then suspend your decision about the propriety of devil - worship , and the expediency of conciliating the devil .
If your banker breaks , you snap ; if your apothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills , you die .
If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you , with dagger uplifted in broad day , you would not be able to see him , any more than if he were stealing upon you from behind .
If he can , then is it as marvellous a thing in him , as if a man were able simultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinct problems in Euclid .
If you are an entire stranger to their race , you might hunt over these two heads for hours , and never discover that organ .
If you pry it up , so as to get it overhead , and expose its rows of teeth , it seems a terrific portcullis ; and such , alas !
If you stand on its summit and look at these two F - shaped spoutholes , you would take the whole head for an enormous bass - viol , and these spiracles , the apertures in its sounding - board .
If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .
If hereafter any highly cultured , poetical nation shall lure back to their birth - right , the merry May - day gods of old ; 
If then , Sir William Jones , who read in thirty languages , could not read the simplest peasant's face in its profounder and more subtle meanings , how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale's brow ?
If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx , to the phrenologist his brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible to square .
If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view of its rear end , which is the high end , you will be struck by its resemblance to the human skull , beheld in the same situation , and from the same point of view .
If you attentively regard almost any quadruped's spine , you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung necklace of dwarfed skulls , all bearing rudimental resemblance to the skull proper .
If the only whales that thus sank were old , meagre , and broken - hearted creatures , their pads of lard diminished and all their bones heavy and rheumatic ; then you might with some reason assert that this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so sinking , consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him .
If I claim the demigod then , why not the prophet ?
If I say , that in any creature breathing is only a function indispensable to vitality , inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a certain element , which being subsequently brought into contact with the blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle , I do not think I shall err ; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words .
If unmolested , upon rising to the surface , the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested risings .
If it be made in the unobstructed air , especially if it descend to its mark , the stroke is then simply irresistible .
If the wind only held , little doubt had they , that chased through these Straits of Sunda , the vast host would only deploy into the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their number .
If he cuts off one of his own toes , or one of his assistants', would you be very much astonished ?
If we bend down our eyes , the dark vale shows her mouldy soil ; but if we lift them , the bright sun meets our glance half way , to cheer .
If you stooped over too far forward , you risked their pitching out of you like billiard - balls .
If he did not have a common soul in him , he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously did its duty .
If the captain pleases , I will now mark the length .
If ye find him , then comfort him ; for he must be very sad ; for look !
If I had sky - sail poles , I'd sway them up now ."
If , then , he were this instant -- put aside , that crime would not be his .
If by day they chanced to speak one word ; by night , dumb men were both , so far as concerned the slightest verbal interchange .
If the gods think to speak outright to man , they will honourably speak outright ; not shake their heads , and give an old wives' darkling hint .-- Begone !
If I had not promoted Mr . Weston's visits here , and given many little encouragements , and smoothed many little matters , it might not have come to any thing after all .
If he means any thing , it must be to please you .
If she can hesitate as to ` Yes ,' she ought to say ` No ' directly .
If you prefer Mr . Martin to every other person ; if you think him the most agreeable man you have ever been in company with , why should you hesitate ?
If he had never esteemed my opinion before , he would have thought highly of me then ; and , I dare say , left the house thinking me the best friend and counsellor man ever had .
If she has it now , you have given it .
If they are anxious to see you happily married , here is a man whose amiable character gives every assurance of it ;-- if they wish to have you settled in the same country and circle which they have chosen to place you in , here it will be accomplished ; 
If he had been anxious for secrecy , he would not have left the paper while I was by ; 
If I had but her memory !
If he were , everything else must give way ; 
If I were to marry , I must expect to repent it ."
If I draw less , I shall read more ; if I give up music , I shall take to carpet - work .
If we feel for the wretched , enough to do all we can for them , the rest is empty sympathy , only distressing to ourselves ."
If I could but have kept longer away !"
If we were obliged to go out such an evening as this , by any call of duty or business , what a hardship we should deem it ;-
If they are not put off , he cannot stir .
If you think he will come , I shall think so too ; for you know Enscombe ."
If she has fancied otherwise , her own wishes have misled her , and I am very sorry -- extremely sorry -- But , Miss Smith , indeed !-- Oh !
If there had not been so much anger , there would have been desperate awkwardness ; but their straightforward emotions left no room for the little zigzags of embarrassment .
If _she_ had so misinterpreted his feelings , she had little right to wonder that _he_ , with self - interest to blind him , should have mistaken hers .
If Mr . Elton , on his return , made his own indifference as evident and indubitable as she could not doubt he would anxiously do , she could not imagine Harriet's persisting to place her happiness in the sight or the recollection of him .
If Frank Churchill had wanted to see his father , he would have contrived it between September and January .
If he would act in this sort of manner , on principle , consistently , regularly , their little minds would bend to his ."
If it failed to produce equal exertion , it could not be an equal conviction ."
If I find him conversable , I shall be glad of his acquaintance ; but if he is only a chattering coxcomb , he will not occupy much of my time or thoughts ."
If it was not for the drawback of her illness -- but I am afraid we must expect to see her grown thin , and looking very poorly .
If Jane does not get well soon , we will call in Mr . Perry .
If it were love , it might be simple , single , successless love on her side alone .
If any thing could be more , where all was most , she was more reserved on the subject of Weymouth and the Dixons than any thing .
If any thing , you are too attentive .
If ever there were people who , without having great wealth themselves , had every thing they could wish for , I am sure it is us .
If she were to meet Miss Bates in her way !-- and upon its beginning to rain , Emma was obliged to expect that the weather would be detaining her at Mrs . Goddard ' s , and that the intelligence would undoubtedly rush upon her without preparation .
If he had come at Christmas he could not have stayed three days ; I was always glad he did not come at Christmas ; now we are going to have just the right weather for him , fine , dry , settled weather .
If you do not call early it will be a slight ."
If he were deficient there , nothing should make amends for it .
If the talking aunt had taken me quite by surprise , it must have been the death of me .
If it be not inconvenient to you , pray let us go in , that I may prove myself to belong to the place , to be a true citizen of Highbury .
If it were to be shared with the woman he loved , he could not think any man to be pitied for having that house .
If he were , he would have done this differently .
If Colonel Campbell is not the person , who can be ?"
If he were to be very alert in engaging Jane Fairfax now , it might augur something .
If she does wrong , she ought to feel it ."
If they must dance , they had better dance at Randalls .
If Mr . and Mrs . Weston will be so obliging as to call here one morning , we may talk it over , and see what can be done ."
If it can be contrived to be at the Crown , papa , it will be very convenient for the horses .
If I could be sure of the rooms being thoroughly aired -- but is Mrs . Stokes to be trusted ?
If one could ascertain what the chief of them -- the Coles , for instance .
If the Westons think it worth while to be at all this trouble for a few hours of noisy entertainment , I have nothing to say against it , but that they shall not choose pleasures for me .-- Oh !
If not wise or refined herself , she would have connected him with those who were ; but Miss Hawkins , it might be fairly supposed from her easy conceit , had been the best of her own set .
If _we_ exert ourselves , I think we shall not be long in want of allies .
If _we_ set the example , many will follow it as far as they can ; though all have not our situations .
If this is living in the country , it is nothing very formidable .
If Miss Woodhouse would not be displeased , she would rather stay at home ."
If I meet with no insuperable difficulties therefore , consider that point as settled ."
If the errand were not a pleasure to me , it could be done , as it always is when I am not here , by my grandmama's ."
If one thinks of all that it has to do , and all that it does so well , it is really astonishing !"
If you want any further explanation ," continued he , smiling , " they are paid for it .
If Jane repressed her for a little time , she soon began again ; 
If she is ill I should be sorry to do her injustice ; but there are some traits in her character which make it difficult for me to speak of her with the forbearance I could wish .
If a separation of two months should not have cooled him , there were dangers and evils before her :-- caution for him and for herself would be necessary .
If he were quite sincere , if he really tried to come , it was to be inferred that Mrs . Churchill's removal to London had been of no service to the wilful or nervous part of her disorder .
If meant to be immediately mixed with the others , and buried from sight , she should have looked on the table instead of looking just across.
If Mr . Knightley did not begin seriously , he was obliged to proceed so , for his proposal was caught at with delight ; and the " Oh !
If you wish me to talk to Mrs . Hodges , or to inspect anything --"
If I come , I shall be cross ."
If attention , in future , could do away the past , she might hope to be forgiven .
If she could not have been angry with Frank Churchill too , it would have been dreadful 
If all took place that might take place among the circle of her friends , Hartfield must be comparatively deserted ; and she left to cheer her father with the spirits only of ruined happiness .
If you need farther explanation , I have the honour , my dear madam , of being your husband's son 
If you remember any queernesses , set them all to the right account .
If I could but see her again !-- But I must not propose it yet .
If I had followed her judgment , and subdued my spirits to the level of what she deemed proper , I should have escaped the greatest unhappiness I have ever known .
If any thing could increase her delight , it was perceiving that the baby would soon have outgrown its first set of caps .
If Emma had still , at intervals , an anxious feeling for Harriet , a momentary doubt of its being possible for her to be really cured of her attachment to Mr . Knightley 
If it were not so , the most poetical thing in the world would be the Underground Railway ."
If I struck you dead I could not wipe it out .
If you will take upon yourself this awful abnegations if you will consent to burden your soul with a vow that you should never make and a knowledge you should never dream about , I will promise you in return --"
If any comrade suggests a name I will put it to the vote .
If no comrade suggests a name , I can only tell myself that that dear dynamiter , who is gone from us , has carried into the unknowable abysses the last secret of his virtue and his innocence ."
If you will not take my command , accept my degradation .
If out of that stiff tie and collar there had come abruptly the head of a cat or a dog , it could not have been a more idiotic contrast .
If he defied the man he was probably dead , either struck stiff there in his chair or long afterwards as by an innocent ailment .
If he called in the police promptly , arrested everyone , told all , and set against them the whole energy of England , he would probably escape ; certainly not otherwise .
If any such creature be conceivable , he looked , indeed , somewhat like it , with his earth - shaking abstraction , as of a stone statue walking .
If the people of the barrel - organ could keep their old - world obligations , so could he .
If we had come here first , we should have had the whole staff at the keyhole .
If the last words of the President meant anything , they meant that he had not after all passed unsuspected .
If the man had one character as a paralytic and another character as a pursuer , the antithesis might make him more interesting , but scarcely more soothing .
If you swear falsely , will you be damned ?
If we had only known that we were three !"
If heaven were his throne and the earth his footstool , I swear that I would pull him down ."
If I had been a draughtsman I would have drawn a caricature .
If I did that I shouldn't know the difference between right and wrong ."
If he misses that he misses his crime .
If these gentlemen are really in a mess with a lot of low wreckers like that ,I'll see them through it.
If we turned and fought these fellows , the whole town would fight for us ."
If you knew Renard as I do -- it's like calling Queen Victoria a dynamiter .
If you had got the man's character into your head --"
If they were all harmless officers , what was Sunday ?
If he had not seized the world , what on earth had he been up to ?
If you want to know what you are , you are a set of highly well - intentioned young jackasses ."
If anyone in heaven has that face I shall know him again .
If we could only get round in front --"
If he has been tipped out of the car , we shall find him rolling as a colt rolls in a field , kicking his legs for fun ."
If Syme had been able to see himself , he would have realised that he , too , seemed to be for the first time himself and no one else .
If you were the man in the dark room , why were you also Sunday , an offense to the sunlight ?
If you were from the first our father and our friend , why were you also our greatest enemy ?
If he will adopt these regulations , in seven years he will be clear ; 
If a rich admiral were to come in our way , Sir Walter --"
If Mrs Clay were a very beautiful woman , I grant you , it might be wrong to have her so much with me ; 
If Jemima were not the trustiest , steadiest creature in the world , it would be enough to spoil her ; for she tells me , they are always tempting her to take a walk with them ."
If there is anything disagreeable going on men are always sure to get out of it , and Charles is as bad as any of them .
If I were to shut myself up for ever with the child , I should not be able to persuade him to do anything he did not like .
If I am a fool , I shall be a fool indeed , for I have thought on the subject more than most men ."
If a man had not a wife , he soon wants to be afloat again ."
If he were a little spoilt by such universal , such eager admiration , who could wonder ?
If he should rise to any very great honours !
If he should ever be made a baronet !
If I loved a man , as she loves the Admiral , I would always be with him , nothing should ever separate us , and I would rather be overturned by him , than driven safely by anybody else ."
If you value her conduct or happiness , infuse as much of your own spirit into her as you can .
If Louisa Musgrove would be beautiful and happy in her November of life , she will cherish all her present powers of mind ."
If we were all like you , I believe we might sit four .
If it were war now, he would have settled it long ago .
If Louisa recovered , it would all be well again .
If Elizabeth and her father did not deceive themselves , had been taking much pains to seek the acquaintance , and proclaim the value of the connection , as he had formerly taken pains to shew neglect .
If he really sought to reconcile himself like a dutiful branch , he must be forgiven for having dismembered himself from the paternal tree .
If he had but asked who the party were !
If Elizabeth could but have heard this !
If we were not related , it would not signify ; but as cousins , she would feel scrupulous as to any proposal of ours .
If you look across the street , you will see Admiral Brand coming down and his brother .
If the girl likes another man better , it is very fit she should have him ."
If she could only have a few minutes conversation with him again , she fancied she should be satisfied ; and as to the power of addressing him , she felt all over courage if the opportunity occurred .
If in that light there is anything which you suppose his cousin might fairly ask of him , I beg you would not hesitate to employ me ."
If he does , however , they will leave me in peace , which may be a decent equivalent for the reversion .
If there is anything in my story which you know to be either false or improbable , stop me .
If you will have such ideas !
If she would only wear rouge she would not be afraid of being seen ; but last time I called , I observed the blinds were let down immediately ."
If one happens only to shut the door a little hard , she starts and wriggles like a young dab 
If I would not go for the sake of your father , I should think it scandalous to go for the sake of his heir .
If the change be not from outward circumstances , it must be from within ; it must be nature , man's nature , which has done the business for Captain Benwick ."
If I had such a memory as Benwick , I could bring you fifty quotations in a moment on my side the argument , and I do not think I ever opened a book in my life which had not something to say upon woman's inconstancy .
If I could explain to you all this , and all that a man can bear and do , and glories to do , for the sake of these treasures of his existence !
If I was wrong in yielding to persuasion once , remember that it was to persuasion exerted on the side of safety , not of risk .
If there is no Mr Glass , whose hat is this ?"
If you love me , go over to the cafe and wait at one of the tables outside .
If he had any explanation it could have been given in complete confidence .
If he's a French patriot he didn ' t write it , because it gives information to Germany .
If it's white instead of black , and solid instead of liquid , and so on all along the line -- then there's something wrong , Monsieur , there's something wrong .
If it was of any interest to Miss Rome or could come in anywhere in the play , he hoped she would --
If it be true that in the twentieth century more space is given to murder than to politics , it is for the excellent reason that murder is a more serious subject .
If the convict was not keeping the shot for Todd , as he evidently wasn't , it is most likely that he was keeping it for Lord Falconroy ; and it looks as if he had delivered the goods .
If so , the hand that held the lantern may not be unconnected with the hand that held the gun .
If you could tell by his manner when the word that might hang him had come , why shouldn't he tell from your manner that the word that might hang him was coming ?
If you must know all about me --'
If I had never heard the words , I should have known by the very shock upon his features that the so - called Oscar Rian had heard his real name .
If that is so , I will tell you what he didn't do .
If I tell you he had bronzed curly hair and a falconish sort of face , bronzed by the sea also , it's not for his sake , I assure you , but for the story ; for it was the cause of a very curious coincidence .
If he had hesitated an instant at the water's edge it would have been nothing .
If the thing was crawling close all around the house like a cat , it might have purposes worse even than blackmail .
If he'd struck amid rocks and sea , he might have hurt his ally ."
If a miracle happened in your office , you'd have to hush it up , now so many bishops are agnostics .
If I gave you the faintest hint of the load of horror I have to bear alone , you would lie shrieking at these feet of mine and begging to know no more .
If the devil tells you something is too fearful to look at , look at it .
If he says something is too terrible to hear , hear it .
If you think some truth unbearable , bear it .
If Father Brown ever attached any importance to either of these , he certainly forgot them at the next turn of the river which brought in sight a singular object .
If Queen Elizabeth were to rise from the grave and come up this river in a gilded barge , she would be received by the Admiral in a house exactly such as she was accustomed to , in every corner and casement , in every panel on the wall or plate on the table .
If all the Pendragons sailed about anyhow , he thought there would be too much chance of natural catastrophes to prove anything .
If it was dreary in a hundred bleak offices and yawning drawing - rooms , it was drearier still along the edges of the flat Essex coast , where the monotony was the more inhuman for being broken at very long intervals by a lamp - post that looked less civilized than a tree , or a tree that looked more ugly than a lamp - post .
If I send out word that it's off we shall have Malvoli storming in here at the head of a whole Corsican clan ."
If you were chased everywhere by devils and nearly --"
If you had seen the Monkey's Face , still we should be very moderate , very tolerant -- you would only be tortured and live .
If one appropriate thing happens , it wakes us up like the pang of a perfect chord .
If Boulnois killed anyone he'd do it quietly and heavily , as he'd do any other doubtful thing -- take a tenth glass of port , or read a loose Greek poet .
If you said to him in so many words , ` Champion is stealing your wife ,' he would think the joke a little vulgar : that it could be anything but a joke -- that notion could find no crack in his great skull to get in by .
If she just pulled their heads off , as a child does , it looks as if --" And he hesitated .
If thought is life And strength and breath And the want Of thought is death ;
If they had any sense , they'd take the roof off .'
If I or she should chance to be Involved in this affair , He trusts to you to set them free , Exactly as we were .
If you can looke into the Seedes of Time , And say , which Graine will grow , and which will not , Speake then to me , who neyther begge , nor feare Your fauors , nor your hate
If ill ?
If good ?
If Chance will haue me King , Why Chance may Crowne me , Without my stirre
If it were done , when ' tis done , then ' twer well , It were done quickly : If th ' Assassination Could trammell vp the Consequence , and catch With his surcease , Successe : that but this blow Might be the be all , and the end all .
If we should faile ?
If you shall cleaue to my consent , When ' tis , it shall make Honor for you
If he doe bleed , Ile guild the Faces of the Groomes withall , For it must seeme their Guilt .
If there come truth from them , As vpon thee Macbeth , their Speeches shine , Why by the verities on thee made good , May they not be my Oracles as well , And set me vp in hope .
If he had beene forgotten , It had been as a gap in our great Feast , And all - thing vnbecomming
If much you note him You shall offend him , and extend his Passion , Feed , and regard him not .
If Charnell houses , and our Graues must send Those that we bury , backe ; our Monuments Shall be the Mawes of Kytes
If I stand heere , I saw him
If he were dead , youl' d weepe for him : if you would not , it were a good signe , that I should quickely haue a new Father
If you will take a homely mans aduice , Be not found heere : Hence with your little ones To fright you thus .
If such a one be fit to gouerne , speake : I am as I haue spoken
If it be mine Keepe it not from me , quickly let me haue it
If thou could ' st Doctor , cast The Water of my Land , finde her Disease , And purge it to a sound and pristine Health , I would applaud thee to the very Eccho , That should applaud againe .
If thou speak ' st false , Vpon the next Tree shall thou hang aliue Till Famine cling thee : If thy speech be sooth , I care not if thou dost for me as much .
If I worship one thing more than another it shall be the spread of my own body , or any part of it , Translucent mould of me it shall be you !
If our colors are struck and the fighting done ?
If you tire , give me both burdens , and rest the chuff of your hand on my hip , And in due time you shall repay the same service to me , For after we start we never lie by again .
If you would understand me go to the heights or water - shore , The nearest gnat is an explanation , and a drop or motion of waves key , The maul , the oar , the hand - saw , second my words .
If any thing is sacred the human body is sacred , And the glory and sweet of a man is the token of manhood untainted , And in man or woman a clean , strong , firm - fibred body , is more beautiful than the most beautiful face .
If you stand at work in a shop I stand as nigh as the nighest in the same shop , If you bestow gifts on your brother or dearest friend I demand as good as your brother or dearest friend , If your lover , husband , wife , is welcome by day or night , I must be personally as welcome , If you become degraded , criminal , ill , then I become so for your sake , If you remember your foolish and outlaw'd deeds , do you think I cannot remember my own foolish and outlaw'd deeds ?
If you carouse at the table I carouse at the opposite side of the table , If you meet some stranger in the streets and love him or her , why I often meet strangers in the street and love them .
If they had not reference to you in especial what were they then ?)
If you blind your eyes with tears you will not see the President's marshal , If you groan such groans you might balk the government cannon .
If we are lost , no victor else has destroy'd us , It is by ourselves we go down to eternal night .
prairiesIf you would be freer than all that has been before , come listen to me .
If the future is nothing they are just as surely nothing .
If all came but to ashes of dung , If maggots and rats ended us , then Alarum !
If I should need to name , O Western World , your powerfulest scene and show , ' Twould not be you , Niagara -- nor you , ye limitless prairies -- nor your huge rifts of canyons , Colorado , Nor you , Yosemite -- nor Yellowstone , with all its spasmic geyser - loops ascending to the skies , appearing and disappearing , Nor Oregon's white cones -- nor Huron's belt of mighty lakes -- nor Mississippi's stream : -- This seething hemisphere's humanity , as now , I'd name -- the still small voice vibrating -- America's choosing day , ( The heart of it not in the chosen -- the act itself the main , the quadriennial choosing ,) The stretch of North and South arous ' d -- sea - board and inland -- Texas to Maine -- the Prairie States -- Vermont , Virginia , California , The final ballot - shower from East to West -- the paradox and conflict , The countless snow - flakes falling --( a swordless conflict , Yet more than all Rome's wars of old , or modern Napoleon's :) the peaceful choice of all , Or good or ill humanity -- welcoming the darker odds , the dross : -- Foams and ferments the wine ?
If you will be so very obliging as to help me ----"
If you really want my opinion you must make the matter clear .
If you will have a little patience ,-- _how_ were you in the cage ?
If you do that , you'll drown me !
If you open your mouth , you are lost ."
If you do not heed its warnings a worse thing will happen to you , for I shall become your enemy ."
If you will , I will love you always ."
If you ever go to the beautiful city of New Orleans , somebody will be sure to take you down into the old business part of the city
If you reach it before the last stroke of midnight , I will receive you there , and will be your friend .
If the man had run for it , he could still have reached the castle , but , instead , he sat still and shouted for a horse .
If he be able to fight with me , and to kill me , then will we be your servants ; but if I prevail against him , and kill him , then shall ye be our servants , and serve us .
If I be bereaved of my children , I am bereaved .
If he said , Nay ; 12 : 6 Then said they unto him , Say now Shibboleth : and he said Sibboleth : for he could not frame to pronounce it right .
If I should say , I have hope , if I should have an husband also to night , and should also bear sons ; 1 : 13 Would ye tarry for them till they were grown ?
If thou wilt redeem it , redeem it : but if thou wilt not redeem it , then tell me , that I may know : for there is none to redeem it beside thee ; and I am after thee .
If I expressly say unto the lad , Behold , the arrows are on this side of thee , take them ; then come thou : for there is peace to thee , and no hurt ; as the LORD liveth .
If the LORD have stirred thee up against me , let him accept an offering : but if they be the children of men , cursed be they before the LORD ; for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the LORD , saying , Go , serve other gods .
If he commit iniquity , I will chasten him with the rod of men , and with the stripes of the children of men : 7 : 15 But my mercy shall not depart away from him , as I took it from Saul , whom I put away before thee .
If it be , give me thine hand .
If ye will not believe , surely ye shall not be established .
If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke , the putting forth of the finger , and speaking vanity ; 58 : 10 And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry , and satisfy the afflicted soul ; then shall thy light rise in obscurity , and thy darkness be as the noon day : 58 : 11 And the LORD shall guide thee continually , and satisfy thy soul in drought , and make fat thy bones : and thou shalt be like a watered garden , and like a spring of water , whose waters fail not .
If it seem good unto thee to come with me into Babylon , come ; and I will look well unto thee
If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness , how great is that darkness !
If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub , how much more shall they call them of his household ?
If thou be the Son of God , come down from the cross .    
If he be the King of Israel , let him now come down from the cross , and we will believe him .
If thou do these things , shew thyself to the world .
If thou be the Christ , tell us plainly .
If any man walk in the day , he stumbleth not , because he seeth the light of this world.
If ye loved me , ye would rejoice , because I said , I go unto the Father : for my Father is greater than I .
If they have persecuted me , they will also persecute you ; if they have kept my saying , they will keep yours also .
If God be for us , who can be against us ?
If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world , let him become a fool , that he may be wise .
If the whole were hearing , where were the smelling ?
If any man trust to himself that he is Christ's , let him of himself think this again , that , as he is Christ's , even so are we Christ's.
If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh , I more : 3 : 5 Circumcised the eighth day , of the stock of Israel , of the tribe of Benjamin , an Hebrew of the Hebrews ; as touching the law , a Pharisee ; 3 : 6 Concerning zeal,persecuting the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law , blameless .
If any man offend not in word , the same is a perfect man , and able also to bridle the whole body .
If any man love the world , the love of the Father is not in him.
If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you , ye also shall continue in the Son , and in the Father.
If we love one another , God dwelleth in us.
If therefore thou shalt not watch , I will come on thee as a thief , and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee .
If I worked , and worked , and worked ever so hard , I could no ways earn two guineas AFORE Monday fortnight -- could I , mother ?"
If you knew all , you'd know I did not ."
If you want money , go work for it ; I've had enough of your laziness -- go work !"
If you remember , you said you should have no objections to try the boy ; and upon that cook bought him new shirts ; but they are too the good , as I tell her ."
If he comes home and finds us here , maybe he'll drive us away ; for he says this bit of ground belongs to his garden : though that is not true , I'm sure ; for Farmer Price knows , and says , it was always open to the road .
If it's fat -- the sooner the better .
If my boy Philip was at home , maybe , as he's often at Mrs . Price's ( which I don't disapprove ), he might know the history of the guinea - hen .
If it is never convenient to you to pay it , I shall never ask it .
If other pigeons have done so before him , I think he is as good , and , I daresay , will be as easy to teach as any pigeon in the world .
If you have sense enough to see your own mistakes , and can afterwards avoid them , you will never be a fool ."
If you don't hold it down for me directly , I'll tell that you showed it to me ."
If it is an impossibility , I've no more to say ; only , for the soul of me , I can't see the great unpossibility , wife .
If I may be so bold to put in my word , madam , you'd have as good beds , and be as well lodged , with Farmer Hearty , as in e'er a house at Salt Hill .
If you choose to have me for a friend , here's my hand .
If the allusion's good , we shall probably find out your meaning .
If Bursal takes it into his head not to lend me the money to pay for my captain's dress , what will become of me ?
If I was going to be hanged , for the life of me I couldn't be after begging so many pardons for nothing at all .
If I'm not mistaken , here comes Talbot to answer for himself .
If you please , my dear .
If Lady Piercefield will trust you to my care , then i would be much happier
If he can't wait , let him go about his business .
If I choose to call my hat my cadwallader , you would understand me just as well , after I had once explained it to you , that by cadwallader I meant this black thing that I put upon my head ; cadwallader and hat would then be just the same thing to you ."
If you were but to see him come into the rooms with those stiff skirts , or walking with his eternal sister Bertha , and his everlasting broad - brimmed hat !
If you desire me to be your manager , you shall see what a theatre I will make for you .
If there is , let him walk off at once , he has my free leave ."
If these are the joys of a Barring Out ," cried Townsend , " I'd rather be snug in my bed .
If these be not good reasons , none better can be assigned for Archer's conduct .
If you yield to reason , you will be governed by reason another time ."
If he continues to do so , he must conquer his sense of shame and lose his love of virtue .
If they do not feel angry themselves , they do not sympathize with you .
If it were but tomorrow , or yesterday , or any day but this , I would not hesitate 
If I should not win the prize , how shall I confess what I have done ?
If anybody else had told me so , I could not have believed them , because I remember the box so well ; but I can't help believing Leonora .
If you would take me along with you amongst them ,it would quite set me up again ; for they all like you .
If I could get them to trust me as they do you , I should be happy indeed ."
If rogues would calculate , they would cease to be rogues ; for they would certainly discover that it is most for their interest to be honest -- setting aside the pleasure of being esteemed and beloved , of having a safe conscience , with perfect freedom from all the various embarrassments and terror to which knaves are subject .
If you will give him some knowledge of your art , I will , as far as money can recompense you for your loss of time , pay whatever you may think reasonable for his instruction ."
If things go on at this rate , there will soon be not one drop of water left in my well ."
If there is any one of you afraid to be flogged , let him march off this instant !"
If anything would have made him angry , it would have been seeing his favourite tree robbed , as he had promised himself the pleasure of giving his red apples to his grandchildren on his birthday .
If you think there's any harm ?"
If you hope for MY pardon , I can tell you it's not to be had without asking for .
If you please , I'll plant on that mount , opposite the window , a young apple - tree , from my old one .
If I find that they are , I will do something more for you ."
If it be ought toward the generall good , Set Honor in one eye , and Death i'th other , And I will looke on both indifferently : For let the Gods so speed mee , as I loue The name of Honor , more then I feare death
If the tag - ragge people did not clap him , and hisse him , according as he pleas'd , and displeas'd them , as they vse to doe the Players in the Theatre , I am no true man
If I were Brutus now , and he were Cassius , He should not humor me .
If I know this , then know all the World 
If it be no more , Portia is Brutus Harlot , not his Wife
If this were true , then should I know this secret .
If you shall send them word you will not come , Their minds may change.
If Caesar hide himself , shall they not whisper Loe Caesar is afraid ?
If thou reade this , O Caesar , thou mayest liue ; If not , the Fates with Traitors do contriue .
If this be knowne , Cassius or Caesar neuer shall turne backe , For I will slay my selfe
If Brutus will vouchsafe , that Antony May safely come to him , and be resolu'd How Caesar hath deseru'd to lye in death , Mark Antony , shall not loue Caesar dead So well as Brutus liuing ; but will follow The Fortunes and Affayres of Noble Brutus , Thorough the hazards of this vntrod State , With all true Faith .
If there bee any in this Assembly , any deere Friend of Caesars , to him I say , that Brutus loue to Caesar , was no lesse then his .
If then , that Friend demand , why Brutus rose against Caesar , this is my answer : Not that I lou'd Caesar lesse , but that I lou'd Rome more.
If any , speak , for him, haue I offended.
If any , cry , for him haue I offended.
If any , kill , for him haue I offended.
If it be found so , some will deere abide it
If I were dispos'd to stir Your hearts and minds to Mutiny and Rage , I should do Brutus wrong , and Cassius wrong : Who (you all know) are Honourable men.
If you have tears , prepare to shed them now .
If you did , I care not
If at Philippi we do face him there, These people got our backs
If I do live , I will be good to thee.
If Cassius might have rul'd
If arguing make us sweat , The proof of it will turn to redder drops
If you dare fight today , come to the Field 
If we do lose this Battle , then is this The very last time we shall speak together : What are you then determined to do ?
If then his providence Out of our evil seek to bring forth good , Our labour must be to pervert that end , And out of good still to find means of evil 
If once they hear that voice , their liveliest pledge Of hope in fears and dangers -- heard so oft In worst extremes
If thence he scape , into whatever world , Or unknown region , what remains him less Then unknown dangers , and as hard escape ?
If that way be your walk , you have not far ; So much the nearer danger.
If I must contend , said he , Best with the best , the sender , not the sent , Or all at once ; more glory will be won , Or less be lost .
If from this hour Within these hallowed limits thou appear , Back to the infernal pit I drag thee chained , And seal thee so , as henceforth not to scorn The facile gates of Hell too slightly barred .
If this be our condition , thus to dwell In narrow circuit straitened by a foe , Subtle or violent , we not endued Single with like defence , wherever met ; How are we happy , still in fear of harm ?
If your joint power prevail , the affairs of Hell No detriment need fear ; go , and be strong !
If prayers Could alter high decrees , I to that place Would speed before thee , and be louder heard , That on my head all might be visited ; Thy frailty and infirmer sex forgiven , To me committed , and by me exposed .
If care of our descent perplex us most , Which must be born to certain woe , devoured By Death at last ; and miserable it is To be to others cause of misery , Our own begotten , and of our loins to bring Into this cursed world a woeful race , That after wretched life must be at last Food for so foul a monster ; in thy power It lies , yet ere conception to prevent The race unblest , to being yet unbegot .
If patiently thy bidding they obey , Dismiss them not disconsolate ; reveal To Adam what shall come in future days , As I shall thee enlighten ; intermix My covenant in the Woman's seed renewed ; So send them forth , though sorrowing , yet in peace : And on the east side of the garden place , Where entrance up from Eden easiest climbs , Cherubick watch ; and of a sword the flame Wide - waving ; all approach far off to fright , And guard all passage to the tree of life : Lest Paradise a receptacle prove To Spirits foul , and all my trees their prey ; With whose stolen fruit Man once more to delude .
If I live long enough I'm going to get even with him !"
If he had had his terrible gun with him , it might have been different.
If you meet me at the Big Hickory - tree at sun - up to - morrow morning,and get everybody else to come that you can , perhaps I will tell you.
If he runs away, I will be the first to admit that Buster Bear is a great hero as some of you seem to think he is .
If you should meet with Buster Bear While walking through the wood , What would you do ?
If you want to find Mr . Bear , you will have to go to the Great Woods .
If Brer Bear isn't scared , he must have remembered something important and has gone to attend to it in a powerful hurry.
If only he had kept his tongue still instead of saying hateful things to Buster Bear !
If only he had known that Buster could climb a tree !
If only he had chosen a tree near enough for him to jump across !
If only he had wings like Sammy Jay !
If I wasn't afraid that someone would see me, I'd go up there.
If he had been whistling, he wouldn't have heard it at all.
If Buster hadn't been so frightened himself, he might have recognized that second yell as one of fright, for that is what it was.