If you ' re not going to argue about words , what are you going to argue about ?
If you like , we are attempting a mutual martyrdom .
If winning is everything , go in and win !
If you will tell us where you are going , we will see you safely there and say good night ."
If ever thou gavest hosen and shoon Every night and all , Sit thee down and put them on , And Christ receive thy soul .
If it is essential to your emotions , I will cheerfully finish the fight here and now ; but I must confess that if you kill me here I shall die with my curiosity highly excited and unsatisfied upon a minor point of geography ."
If we can get some sleep in this wood , now everyone has cleared out of it , it will be worth a handicap of two hundred yards tomorrow ."
If they marry , they will be sure of doing well , and if they do not , they may all live very comfortably together on the interest of ten thousand pounds ."
If your sentiments are no longer what they were , you will return my notes , and the lock of my hair which is in your possession .
If we CAN but put Willoughby out of her head !"
If he assumes my father to be a noble person, I'll speak.
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer , I will doe your Mothers command ' ment : if not , your pardon , and my return shall be the end of my Business
If your Messenger find him not there , seeke him i ' th other place your selfe : but indeed , if you finde him not this month , you shall nose him as you go up the stairs into the Lobby
If your minde dislike any thing , obey .
If it be now , ' tis not to come : if it bee not to come , it will bee now : if it be not now ; yet it will come ; the readiness is all , since no man has out of what he leaves .
If you attentively regard almost any quadruped's spine , you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung necklace of dwarfed skulls , all bearing rudimental resemblance to the skull proper .
If unmolested , upon rising to the surface , the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested risings .
If the captain pleases , I will now mark the length .
If the gods think to speak outright to man , they will honourably speak outright ; not shake their heads , and give an old wives' darkling hint .-- Begone !
If Jane does not get well soon , we will call in Mr . Perry .
If you do not call early it will be a slight ."
If it can be contrived to be at the Crown , papa , it will be very convenient for the horses .
If _we_ set the example , many will follow it as far as they can ; though all have not our situations .
If you will take upon yourself this awful abnegations if you will consent to burden your soul with a vow that you should never make and a knowledge you should never dream about , I will promise you in return --"
If any comrade suggests a name I will put it to the vote .
If you swear falsely , will you be damned ?
If these gentlemen are really in a mess with a lot of low wreckers like that ,I'll see them through it.
If he will adopt these regulations , in seven years he will be clear ; 
If a rich admiral were to come in our way , Sir Walter --"
If Louisa Musgrove would be beautiful and happy in her November of life , she will cherish all her present powers of mind ."
If you look across the street , you will see Admiral Brand coming down and his brother .
If he does , however , they will leave me in peace , which may be a decent equivalent for the reversion .
If that is so , I will tell you what he didn't do .
If you can looke into the Seedes of Time , And say , which Graine will grow , and which will not , Speake then to me , who neyther begge , nor feare Your fauors , nor your hate
If ill ?
If good ?
If he doe bleed , Ile guild the Faces of the Groomes withall , For it must seeme their Guilt .
If you blind your eyes with tears you will not see the President's marshal , If you groan such groans you might balk the government cannon .
If you will , I will love you always ."
If you ever go to the beautiful city of New Orleans , somebody will be sure to take you down into the old business part of the city
If you reach it before the last stroke of midnight , I will receive you there , and will be your friend .
If he be able to fight with me , and to kill me , then will we be your servants ; but if I prevail against him , and kill him , then shall ye be our servants , and serve us .
If thou wilt redeem it , redeem it : but if thou wilt not redeem it , then tell me , that I may know : for there is none to redeem it beside thee ; and I am after thee .
If he commit iniquity , I will chasten him with the rod of men , and with the stripes of the children of men : 7 : 15 But my mercy shall not depart away from him , as I took it from Saul , whom I put away before thee .
If ye will not believe , surely ye shall not be established .
If it seem good unto thee to come with me into Babylon , come ; and I will look well unto thee
If we love one another , God dwelleth in us.
If therefore thou shalt not watch , I will come on thee as a thief , and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee .
If you knew all , you'd know I did not ."
If he comes home and finds us here , maybe he'll drive us away ; for he says this bit of ground belongs to his garden : though that is not true , I'm sure ; for Farmer Price knows , and says , it was always open to the road .
If you have sense enough to see your own mistakes , and can afterwards avoid them , you will never be a fool ."
If you don't hold it down for me directly , I'll tell that you showed it to me ."
If you please , my dear .
If you yield to reason , you will be governed by reason another time ."
If you will give him some knowledge of your art , I will , as far as money can recompense you for your loss of time , pay whatever you may think reasonable for his instruction ."
If you please , I'll plant on that mount , opposite the window , a young apple - tree , from my old one .
If I find that they are , I will do something more for you ."
If this be knowne , Cassius or Caesar neuer shall turne backe , For I will slay my selfe
If it be found so , some will deere abide it
If I do live , I will be good to thee.
If arguing make us sweat , The proof of it will turn to redder drops
If he runs away, I will be the first to admit that Buster Bear is a great hero as some of you seem to think he is .
If you want to find Mr . Bear , you will have to go to the Great Woods .