If he were foolhardy he might escape ; if he were wise he would stop where he was till he dropped from the cross like a stone .
If a man must not fight for this , may he fight for anything ?
If I did not suspect that you were a genius , I should certainly know you were a blockhead .
If that man had not tried to stop us ... I might ... I might have stopped ."
If the weak must go to the wall , go to the wall !
If someone had spoken of " her generous ribbon " or " her chivalrous gloves " or " her merciful shoe - buckle ," it would not have seemed to him nonsense .
If you had asked him about women , he would have said that one must preserve their domesticity and decorum ; he would have used the stalest words , but he would have in reserve the strongest arguments .
If you had asked him about government , he would have said that all citizens were free and equal , but he would have meant what he said .
If you had asked him about education , he would have said that the young must be trained up in habits of industry and of respect for their parents .
If the citizen finds himself despoiled of such pleasures and powers as he would have had even in the savage state , the social contract is annulled ."
If , indeed , it could be restored to our poor little boy --"
If he should have a numerous family , for instance , it would be a very convenient addition ."
If you were to see them at the altar , you would suppose they were going to be married .
If I had my senses about me I might have called in Conduit Street on my way home , and told them of it .
If it be ; Why seems it so particular with thee
If it be so ; And that in way of caution : I must tell you , You don't understand yourself so clearly
If it will please you to spend your time with us for a while. Your Visitation shall receive such thanks as fits a  King's remembrance
If she should break it now
If it be so Laertes , as how should it be so : How otherwise will you be rul ' d by me ?
If so you 'll not o ' rerule me to a peace
If he had not been a small degree civilized , he very probably would not have troubled himself with boots at all ; but then , if he had not been still a savage , he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on .
If I had been downright honest with myself , I would have seen very plainly in my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to so long a voyage , without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the absolute dictator of it , so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea .
If it be made in the unobstructed air , especially if it descend to its mark , the stroke is then simply irresistible .
If he did not have a common soul in him , he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously did its duty .
If ye find him , then comfort him ; for he must be very sad ; for look !
If I had not promoted Mr . Weston's visits here , and given many little encouragements , and smoothed many little matters , it might not have come to any thing after all .
If I were to marry , I must expect to repent it ."
If I could but have kept longer away !"
If there had not been so much anger , there would have been desperate awkwardness ; but their straightforward emotions left no room for the little zigzags of embarrassment .
If he would act in this sort of manner , on principle , consistently , regularly , their little minds would bend to his ."
If it failed to produce equal exertion , it could not be an equal conviction ."
If she does wrong , she ought to feel it ."
If they must dance , they had better dance at Randalls .
If _we_ exert ourselves , I think we shall not be long in want of allies .
If the errand were not a pleasure to me , it could be done , as it always is when I am not here , by my grandmama's ."
If I come , I shall be cross ."
If attention , in future , could do away the past , she might hope to be forgiven .
If the last words of the President meant anything , they meant that he had not after all passed unsuspected .
If he had not seized the world , what on earth had he been up to ?
If it were war now, he would have settled it long ago .
If I would not go for the sake of your father , I should think it scandalous to go for the sake of his heir .
If he had any explanation it could have been given in complete confidence .
If so , the hand that held the lantern may not be unconnected with the hand that held the gun .
If you must know all about me --'
If I had never heard the words , I should have known by the very shock upon his features that the so - called Oscar Rian had heard his real name .
If he'd struck amid rocks and sea , he might have hurt his ally ."
If a miracle happened in your office , you'd have to hush it up , now so many bishops are agnostics .
If Father Brown ever attached any importance to either of these , he certainly forgot them at the next turn of the river which brought in sight a singular object .
If they had any sense , they'd take the roof off .'
If it were done , when ' tis done , then ' twer well , It were done quickly : If th ' Assassination Could trammell vp the Consequence , and catch With his surcease , Successe : that but this blow Might be the be all , and the end all .
If he were dead , youl' d weepe for him : if you would not , it were a good signe , that I should quickely haue a new Father
If all came but to ashes of dung , If maggots and rats ended us , then Alarum !
If you would be freer than all that has been before , come listen to me .
If I be bereaved of my children , I am bereaved .
If I should say , I have hope , if I should have an husband also to night , and should also bear sons ; 1 : 13 Would ye tarry for them till they were grown ?
If ye loved me , ye would rejoice , because I said , I go unto the Father : for my Father is greater than I .
If they have persecuted me , they will also persecute you ; if they have kept my saying , they will keep yours also .
If the whole were hearing , where were the smelling ?
If any man trust to himself that he is Christ's , let him of himself think this again , that , as he is Christ's , even so are we Christ's.
If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you , ye also shall continue in the Son , and in the Father.
If it is never convenient to you to pay it , I shall never ask it .
If you choose to have me for a friend , here's my hand .
If you were but to see him come into the rooms with those stiff skirts , or walking with his eternal sister Bertha , and his everlasting broad - brimmed hat !
If these are the joys of a Barring Out ," cried Townsend , " I'd rather be snug in my bed .
If he continues to do so , he must conquer his sense of shame and lose his love of virtue .
If I should not win the prize , how shall I confess what I have done ?
If rogues would calculate , they would cease to be rogues ; for they would certainly discover that it is most for their interest to be honest -- setting aside the pleasure of being esteemed and beloved , of having a safe conscience , with perfect freedom from all the various embarrassments and terror to which knaves are subject .
If anything would have made him angry , it would have been seeing his favourite tree robbed , as he had promised himself the pleasure of giving his red apples to his grandchildren on his birthday .
If it be ought toward the generall good , Set Honor in one eye , and Death i'th other , And I will looke on both indifferently : For let the Gods so speed mee , as I loue The name of Honor , more then I feare death
If Caesar hide himself , shall they not whisper Loe Caesar is afraid ?
If thou reade this , O Caesar , thou mayest liue ; If not , the Fates with Traitors do contriue .
If I were dispos'd to stir Your hearts and minds to Mutiny and Rage , I should do Brutus wrong , and Cassius wrong : Who (you all know) are Honourable men.
If thence he scape , into whatever world , Or unknown region , what remains him less Then unknown dangers , and as hard escape ?
If your joint power prevail , the affairs of Hell No detriment need fear ; go , and be strong !
If you should meet with Buster Bear While walking through the wood , What would you do ?
If I wasn't afraid that someone would see me, I'd go up there.
If he had been whistling, he wouldn't have heard it at all.
If Buster hadn't been so frightened himself, he might have recognized that second yell as one of fright, for that is what it was.